Add glossary for camel/kebab/snake casing (#28906)
mdn/content: files/en-us/glossary/camel_case/index.md

---
title: Camel case
slug: Glossary/Camel_case
page-type: glossary-definition
---

{{GlossarySidebar}}

> **Camel case** is a way of writing phrases without spaces, where the first letter of each word is capitalized, while the first letter of the entire compound word is either upper or lower case. The name comes from similarity of the capital letters with the humps of a camel's back. It's often stylized as "camelCase" to remind the reader of its appearance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Camel case** is a way of writing phrases without spaces, where the first letter of each word is capitalized, while the first letter of the entire compound word is either upper or lower case. The name comes from the similarity of the capital letters to the humps of a camel's back. It's often stylized as "camelCase" to remind the reader of its appearance.
```

? (I don't really understand English and am English, so quite often get these things wrong)

Author: Both are okay in both English styles, although "to" seems slightly more popular.

> **Camel case** is a way of writing phrases without spaces, where the first letter of each word is capitalized, while the first letter of the entire compound word is either upper or lower case. The name comes from the similarity of the capital letters to the humps of a camel's back. It's often stylized as "camelCase" to remind the reader of its appearance.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Camel case** is a way of writing phrases without spaces, where the first letter of each word is capitalized, except for the first letter of the entire compound word, which may be either upper or lower case. The name comes from the similarity of the capital letters to the humps of a camel's back. It's often stylized as "camelCase" to remind the reader of its appearance.
```

> Camel casing is often used as a variable naming convention. The following variables are in camel case: {{domxref("console")}}, {{domxref("crossOriginIsolated")}}, {{jsxref("encodeURIComponent")}}, {{jsxref("ArrayBuffer")}}, and {{domxref("HTMLElement")}}.

Reviewer: It seems a little perverse to call "console" camel case, but OK.

Author: Yeah, just showcasing the trivial case.

Reviewer 2: You could use "car" and "Car" since according to our rule either would be allowed.
```

Note that if the phrase contains acronyms (such as `URI` and `HTML`), camel casing practices vary. Some prefer to keep all of them capitalized, such as `encodeURIComponent` above. This may sometimes lead to ambiguity with multiple consecutive acronyms, such as `XMLHTTPRequest`. Others prefer to only capitalize the first letter, as `XmlHttpRequest`. The actual global variable, {{domxref("XMLHttpRequest")}}, uses a mix of both.

> When the first letter of the entire phrase is upper case, it is called _upper camel case_ or _Pascal case_. Otherwise, it is called _lower camel case_.

Reviewer: Since we link using "lower camel case", I wonder if it is worth a heading like "Lower and upper (or Pascal) camel case"? A bit of a clumsy name though.

Author: I think linking to the glossary as a whole is okay. It's only 5 paragraphs long anyway.
